With major societal mechanisms such as the economy turning to circular schemes, we are witnessing gradual transformations in the scientific models we depend on (Geissdoerfer, 2017). In the near future, models of circular networks will become indispensable to the effort of putting such projects into practice. Even though such practical applications do not constitute a central concern of the present research, they do serve as a justification of our cause. 
In theoretical terms, circularity has been shown to be a solution to the regress problem. Albeit disputed by many as an unsuitable response to the issue (see for instance BonJour, 1985 for a coherentist account), this criticism is grounded in the pervasiveness of linearity in modern conceptions of time and space. In fact, it is relevant to note that in such contexts circularity has often been treated as a trap or logical pitfall rather than a viable solution. 
We, however, realise the ungrounded nature of these accusations (reasons for which are beyond the scope of the present paper) and choose rather to explore the productive potential of circularity as a solution. Even the coherentist would agree that some loops are productive. One alternative solution is proposed by infinitism; however in light of the finite nature of our minds and world, this conception of an apriori seems highly unlikely.
Indeed, as Bo Bennett has shown in his book Logically Fallacious (2015): 
“...we can never escape circular reasoning because the arguments always come back to axioms or first principles, but in those cases, the circles are very large and do manage to share useful information in determining the truth of the proposition.” 
This statement rigorously grounds our case. While thinkers like Wittgenstein have questioned the productive nature of tautologies and condemned many disciplines of knowledge-production to mere practices of self-(re)iteration, Bennett (2015) clearly demonstrates that ‘useful information’ can be shared in the process. When Wittgenstein (1921) states that ‘every statement about complexes can be analysed into a statement about their constituent parts, and into those propositions which completely describe the complexes’, we must therefore reinterpret such tautological processes in a new light. 
Moreover, if we allow that networks for the given purpose should go beyond natural capacities, human nature must be considered. As man is the start, and end of the modern food-chain, consciousness is of paramount importance for productive systems. In this context, for man to know or to be justified in believing that his basic sources of belief are reliable, he must turn to epistemically circular arguments for reassurance (Alston, 1993). This implies that a successful model must too encircle its centre. 
To justify and explain the existence of such a system, existentialism needs to be taken into account. Previous research has shown that conscious being arises from a coalescence of spontaneity and inertia. The ideas have often been analysed in terms of the for-itself and the in-itself respectively (see for example Being and Nothingness, Sartre 1956 for a more detailed account). If it is the resultant system that we seek to model, appropriate measures must be taken. Indeed as Sartre has explained, ‘[t]he for-itself is such that it has the right to turn back on itself toward its origin’ (1956: 619). It follows thus, that the appropriate model must too be able to turn back on itself. 