With major societal mechanisms such as the economy turning to
circular schemes, we are witnessing gradual transformations in the
scientific models we depend on (Geissdoerfer, 2017). In the near future,
models of circular networks will become indispensable to the
effort of putting such projects into practice. Even though such practical
applications do not constitute a central concern of the present
research, they do serve as a justification of our cause.
In theoretical terms, circularity has been shown to be a solution
to the regress problem. Albeit disputed by many as an unsuitable
response to the issue (see for instance BonJour, 1985 for a coherentist
account), this criticism is grounded in the pervasiveness of
linearity in modern conceptions of time and space. In fact, it is relevant
to note that in such contexts circularity has often been treated
as a trap or logical pitfall rather than a viable solution.
We, however, realise the ungrounded nature of these accusations
(reasons for which are beyond the scope of the present paper) and
choose rather to explore the productive potential of circularity as a
solution. Even the coherentist would agree that some loops are productive.
One alternative solution is proposed by infinitism; however
in light of the finite nature of our minds and world, this conception
of an apriori seems highly unlikely.Indeed, as Bo Bennett has
shown in his book Logically Fallacious (2015):
...we can never escape circular reasoning because the
arguments always come back to axioms or first principles,
but in those cases, the circles are very large and
do manage to share useful information in determining
the truth of the proposition.
This statement rigorously grounds our case. While thinkers like
Wittgenstein have questioned the productive nature of tautologies
and condemned many disciplines of knowledge-production to mere
practices of self-(re)iteration, Bennett (2015) clearly demonstrates
that useful information can be shared in the process. WhenWittgenstein
(1921) states that every statement about complexes can be
analysed into a statement about their constituent parts, and into
those propositions which completely describe the complexes, we
must therefore reinterpret such tautological processes in a new
light.
Moreover, if we allow that networks for the given purpose should
go beyond natural capacities, human nature must be considered. As
man is the start, and end of the modern food-chain, consciousness
is of paramount importance for productive systems. In this context,
for man to know or to be justified in believing that his basic
sources of belief are reliable, he must turn to epistemically circular
arguments for reassurance (Alston, 1993). This implies that a
successful model must too encircle its centre.
To justify and explain the existence of such a system, existentialism
needs to be taken into account. Previous research has shown
Fig. 2. A diagram showing the typical feedforward network model. The
network is an iteration of the classic I/O model, however in feedforward
systems a bottleneck is applied as labelled above. Mention of this bottleneck
is omitted and its impact disregarded in most accounts of the feedforward
network.
that conscious being arises from a coalescence of spontaneity and
inertia. The ideas have often been analysed in terms of the for-itself
and the in-itself respectively (see for example Being and Nothingness,
Sartre 1956 for a more detailed account). If it is the resultant
system that we seek to model, appropriate measures must be taken.
Indeed as Sartre has explained, [t]he for-itself is such that it has the
right to turn back on itself toward its origin (1956: 619). It follows
thus, that the appropriate model must too be able to turn back on
itself.
TRADITIONAL NETWORKS, FEEDFORWARD
Up to date, feedforward networks have been the ad-hoc systems
modelling approach. As demonstrated by for instance Bose (2007),
Esfe et al. (2015) or Chatterjee et al. (2016), a range of tasks can
be successfully approximated through a feedforward approach. The
method lends itself to universally modelling any continuous functions
on any compact input sets (Huang, Zhu Siew, 2006). Our
recent research, however, contradicts their previously assumed universal
suitability and general viability. In this section we outline
some of the key reasons supporting this criticism.
A case can be made on the grounds of the unnatural nature of
the system. As if a free flowing source, the traverse of perceptions
and data is allowed the front facing vector in a feedforward system.
Propagation from input to proposal is closed to perturbation (and
thus too the chance of spontaneity), by ignoring time determinate
sets and stimuli. Once set upon their purpose, these systems generate
nature atypical responses. Thus straying from the hypothesis of
curvature upon oneselves, imposing a hierarchy on consciousness.
Although now on their purpose, the feedforward systems exhibit
an energy bottleneck. The widespread application of these models
has contributed to many current global crises, both indirectly
and directly. This is primarily due to said energy bottleneck that is
needed to ensure equilibrium of the system. While this bottleneck
has extensive consequences, most researchers choose not to mention
it for unknown reasons. Figure 2 shows a feedforward system
in its entirety.
To give only a few examples, these models have significantly
contributed towards issues such as global warming or poverty.With
influential agents such as corporations and governments modelling
their institutions on the feedforward system, the energy bottleneck
inevitably leads to negative externalities such as exploitation, CO2
emissions or discrimination. The capitalist economy is in essence
a macroscopic feedforward system, the long-term maintenance of
which is unsustainable.
In order to give a more detailed account of the technical explanation
for the problem, we consider energy properties of the discrete
system. We a distribution of inertial flow of data throughout the
system and notice two key points: (1) Pressure differentials occur
in regions of changing area, which leads to expected turbulence,
and inertia may be lost to waste heat; (2) Input and output regions
do not represent internal states of our machine effectively. Therefore,
we expect the net efficiency of the system to degrade along a
correlatory axis of system complexity, and distance;
As has clearly been demonstrated, the feedforward system alone
has many drawbacks. In order to compensate for their shortcomings
and to be able to fuel their desired progress, the incorporation
of feedback into the feedforward system has been common
Fig. 3. A diagram showing the typical feedback network model. The network
is a extension of the feedforward network, however, curvature is now
apparent. The set point gives reference to the systems existence, and allows
for spontaneity in action. Bottlenecks are increased exponentially.
practice. To achieve this, methods of energy and momentum retransmission
are often implemented. These manifest themselves as
feedback loops. As Tatara and Kohno (2004) have shown in their
self-contained theory, the momentum transfer is proportional to the
systems resistivity.
ON FEEDBACK LOOPS: THE MODERN PROBLEMS
Even though supplementing feedforward systems with feedback
has been a pragmatic solution to the problem at hand, we propose
that it is theoretically imperfect and, in the long-run, unsustainable.
Let us consider the following short parable that we will later return
to:
There once was a time when science would bend over
backwards to find new conceptions of the world. Once
backwards was found in feedback loops, they presumably
stopped looking. And as the scientists gained that
inertia, it was forgotten from the system.
The use of feedback in these systems adds properties which act
both for and against our envisioned system. It allows now for spontaneity
via self-reflection of the output state versus the initiative set
point. When discrepancies arise, it is in the models interest to self
evaluate and adjust to its new environment. As the system gains a
degree of the capacity for self-reflection, it comes to be more in
line with the thesis that our thoughts about our own thoughts are
infallible (Parent, 2017). Such a system displays some of the characteristics
that we see as prerequisites to success.
The core of this is that the system now has the feed-self attribute.
Where energy from one domain of intelligence, permeates
the membranes of our functional abstractions. The net effect is an
increase in data transversal velocity over time. Figure 3 shows this
system, where the now continuous flow between outlets and inlets
is realised. This however quickly reaches a terminal and effective
peak, due to the still remaining bottlenecks having a turbulent effect
on the data stream thus replacing natural flow with instabilities
and incongruent regions. It is this concept which, when relegated
to consequence, rather than cause, leads focus away from the core
issues in the system.
Therefore, although the system now exhibits a key feature of the
more desired feedself model, issues prevail in this conjuncted setup.
The most prominent of these issues continues to be the energy bottleneck,
which the addition of a feedback loop alone cannot mitigate,
let alone eliminate. The turbulences that arise as a result cause
countless disruptions, few of which we will briefly mention here.
Most importantly, on the system level they contribute to confusing
or, in some graver cases, even losing self-awareness. The dangers
that come with this become evident when reading Deepek Chopras
words: [b]y becoming self aware, you gain ownership of reality; in
becoming real, you become the master of both inner and outer life.
The prevalence of turbulent flows therefore clearly impedes a system
from gaining a grasp of itself and of the outside world that it is
intended to model.
Fig. 4. A schematic representation of a feedforward network with four
feedback loops nested along its course. The provision of feedback is of
course optimised based on Hattie and Timperleys (2007) model).
In practice, this results in significant consequences over time.
Just to name a few examples, the use of a feedforward model with
nested and iterated feedback loops can likely be identified as one of
the obstacles that Pearce (1990) and his followers have overlooked
when drafting their economic models.Given the scope of current
models, achieving the desired circular societies therefore remains
out of reach. Another example is the impossibility of prediction of
fluctuations in unemployment based on business-cycle-frequency
that occur in response to shocks of significant magnitudes (Shimer,
2005). Others, as summarised by Hecht-Nielsen (1993), have attempted
to resolve the problem through the implementation of a
mechanism known as backpropagation. From a purely intuitive perspective
however, it is evident that the back propagation of the data
is not a suitable model of the world as you cannot always go backwards.
Together, these and the myriad other examples point to the
need for a new, self-contained model. And towards this, an equidynamic
system should be approached.
FEEDSELF AS THE VIABLE ALTERNATIVE
We all would have a bone to pick with any incomplete assumptions
of systems not receptive to external dynamics. This bone, is perhaps
only of contention with the notion of input sampling. For if one
samples infrequently, aliasing would occur, but too often, and the
notion of circularity is lost through the instability of position within
this loop. It is therefore suggested that uniformity throughout the
manifold of the systems sections is not only beneficial to reduce
aforementioned turbulence, but also to reduce aliasing, and promote
distributive homogeneity throughout the convolutional space.
In this section we elaborate on our proposition for the field;
the feedself model. Consider a feedforward network with iterative
feedback loops along the course of its progression as shown in Figure
4.
As has been shown by numerous studies, feedback is one of the
most powerful influences on learning and achievement (see for example
Hattie and Timperley, 2007). We therefore propose that its
provision should be maximised in order to approach optimal output
of the system. As this aim is pursued, the individual feedback
loops are inevitably grouped closer together. See Figure 5 for an
impression of this progression.
Essentially, the ideal state becomes one where feedback is provided
at each smallest possible increment of progression along the
course of the feedforward system. As this increment approaches
the ideal state of zero, the system approaches the natural state of
being its own input and output; it comes to feed itself. Figure 5 (c)
demonstrates this pre-final, near optimal stage.
The final and therefore optimal state is one in which the input
and output become obsolete. As such, the feedself network is
established. See Figure 6.
To put it succinctly, as more feedback cycles are packed closer
together, an active network approaches the ideal state of a closed
loop. This is primarily due to the fact that small feedback outputs
become insignificant in the context of the infinite length of the loop.
Once the feedself loop is established, the need for input and output
ceases.
The theoretical principles grounding the feedself system are
based on a strong mathematical backbone. Here we chose to omit
the entirety of the proof, yet its overall essence is captured in the
following functions. Consider Figure and the following:
Fig. 5. Top to bottom, schematics showing feedforward network with: a)
four nested feedback loops that occur more frequently after one another than
those in Figure 4. b) four nested feedback loops that occur more frequently
after one another than those in (a). c) the resultant system as the ideal level
of feedback is reached. Although visually this appears similar to the feedforward
system with a single feedback loop, in this case the feedback loop
continues indefinitely.
Fig. 6. A schematic representing the ideal feedself system.
Fig. 7. Representation of a simplified feedback system in which vectors
for data traversal are shown.
Given n is the number of circuits completed. ????!
BC is a unidirectional
vector in the forwards or clockwise direction of our loop;????!
CB
is a unidirectional vector in the backwards or clockwise direction
of our loop.
I = j
????!
ABj + j
????!
BCj + n  (j
????!
BCj + j
????!
CBj) + j
????!
CDj
= j
????!
ADj + n  (j
????!
BCj + j
????!
CBj)
normalising I to one as interest is in commutative relationships,
then as we increase loops n to infinity
1 = j
????!
ADj + n  (j
????!
BCj + j
????!
CBj)
= j
????!
ADj + lim
n!1

n  (j
????!
BCj + j
????!
CBj)

????!
AD  lim
n!1

n  (j
????!
BCj + j
????!
CBj)

j
????!
ADj  0
Therefore at any point, the primary of the impact of the system is
within the looping component, and the input and output regions
cease to add relevance to the feedself system. This principle illustrates
the validity of the feedself system. One realisation of this
system within the naive field of computer science, could be thought
as a Toroidal Recurrent Boltzmann Machine. We are however concerned
science will read too much in to this, thus we have skipped
explanation in angst.
Fig. 8. Artists impressions of the intraloop states of the feedself network
CONSTRUCTING THE MODEL
This section details our approach to constructing and testing the
model. As empiricism has been explained enough, we cannot but
agree with Eva Hesses well spoken words; [d]ont ask what the work
is. Rather, see what the work does. In spite of this, we have also
chosen to ground our model in theory, as is shown throughout the
present paper.
In constructing our own feedself network, we used negative
space to isolate hyperplane contours. Throughout the testing, temperature
was maintained at stochastic entropy. The comfort of the
researchers was of course ensured. As a result, momentum of the
simulata was stimulated from its rest state thereby bringing the system
into motion.
In contrast to the feedback network, discretized sampling was
omitted for brevity. Resultantly, the manifold of the system curved
back on itself. At this point the system reached the intended active
and non-causally oriented state. An approximation of the activestate
system can be seen in the Figure 8.
In total we successfully completed 128 testing rounds. Each of
these ran smoothly, without interruption. The results rigorously
confirmed our premises.
STATE OF THE INDUSTRY
The industry has come to know these networks affectionately as
the Feedself Network. Work in the field is in its early stages and
we realise that much work is yet to be done. Nevertheless, Sonoda
and Murata confirm that [o]ne strength is that our results are very
constructive (Sonoda Murata, 2017: 235).
Future work will require exploring the possibilities for multiagent
systems. While the present paper is primarily concerned with
justifying and handling single feedself systems in isolation, the
conglomeration of numerous such networks has productive potential
(as too does the cumulation of future research papers in the
field). In such multi-agent systems, collisions between the present
active agents are likely to yield new, unexpected results. In line with
Sartres (1956) line of thought, the agents in such a system will be
responsible for the their own representation in the others consciousness,
yet they will not be the foundation of it. This, we predict, may
give rise to intra-systemic spontaneity.
Given the feedselfs system ability for self-reflection and to
rapidly enact change through disruptions in its uniform hull, multi
agent systems show great promise. It is suggested that selection of
nutative pairs through orthogonal complements, system dynamicity
could be encouraged, and thus emergent grounds, encroached.
Another future challenge may be making the loops large enough
to give space to useful information emerging within the system.
It may be fruitful to experiment with optimal or threshold magnitudes
for network sizes. The current state of research seems to
be in line with the principle of the bigger the better; more specifically
this translates to the hypothesis that the larger the network, the
more useful information it is likely to generate. Nevertheless, this
remains a mere speculation at the time of writing. Further research
should be carried out to make any conclusive claims.